# Six of Crows Duology

I actually wanted to read Six of Crows. People all over the internet said that
Six of Crows Duology is much better than the Shadow and Bone Trilogy and that
one could directly read Six of Crows Duology without even bothering with Shadow
and Bones Trilogy. After reading all this on the internet, I knew that if I
read the Six of Crows Duology first, I wouldn't have enjoyed the Shadow and
Bones Trilogy so I read that first. And then I read Six of Crows. As of now
(while writing this particular paragraph in this blog), I have only read the
first book of the duology that is Six of Crows and I'll write my thoughts about
that. I'll finish this blog after readint the second book and append my
thoughts.


## Six of Crows

The first time I read the title of this book somewhere on the internet, I
thought it would be some horror story with scarecrows.

The story is perfect. The characters are perfect. The book is perfect. It is
better than any movie that involves some kind of heist. The writing style is so
good. I like books written in third person more. But this book took it to the
next level by writing from the perspective of the characters in every new
chapter. At first, I thought that the chapters are named after the characters
but when the names were repeated in new chapters, I realised that the writing
has been done from the mentioned character's perspective. The flashbacks into
the history of the characters and the continuation of the history from another
character's perspective is so smooth (Nina and Matthias, Kaz and Inej).

### Kaz Brekker

He came to the city with his big brother when his father had died. He saw his
big brother die infront of him due to Pekka Rollins. And now he lives to give
Pekka the death he deserves. *Brick by brick.*

He lives by his own principles. He is a friend to all his gang but if you
betray him, he is not going to show you mercy. He is not going to "show" it.
But he is going to be merciful. He appears to be the badass and he is too but
I'm sure he is kind at heart (will probably see this in the second book). He
let Big Bolliger think that he is letting him bleed to death but later he asked
is people to make sure he survives and leaves the city. That was the first hint
towards the person he is inside. He wears an armour to shield his innerself
from the people around him and to protect them and him. He is similar to Will
from The Infernal Devices. He has his own history and secrets which make him
behave the way he does. And even though we've found out a lot of his history,
I'm sure a lot of it remains to found out in the second book and it will be
more than enough to justify his behaviour with others.

And he's a mastermind. Always ten steps ahead of his enemy. Double-crossing the
double-crossers. He did not share the entire plan he had for the heist because
he never does. Telling the plan to others means a chance of leaks and he
doesn't risk it. And he proves his skills by breaching the most protected area
in the world.

He cares for Inej. Just doesn't want to show it. I know there are reasons
behind it - one could be for her own protection. And we read how that turned
out. The moment Van Ek saw Kaz chancing a glance at Inej, he took her. And then
he said one of the most badass lines of the entire book. I don't remember it
but it was something like "I won't let him take my money. I won't let him take
my girl."

And lastly, he carries a cane due to his limp. A cane made by Fabricators with
a crow for the handle. How cool is that? And the cane is all he needs. He knows
the right spots to hit with the cane - the spots for making one numb, for
making one faint or for making on die.

### Inej Ghafa

The Spider for The Dregs. What an amazing character. She was kidnapped from her
parents by pirates and sold to one of the brothels of the city where she was
treated poorly. Then Kaz came to the rescue. Kaz had not heard her approach him
even when she had all those "rining jewels" on. And that had been the only time
he hadn't heard her approach. He had asked Per Haskell to buy her contract from the
brothel and trained her to be the spy for The Dregs. Her movements are so
smooth and silent when she's running across rooftops. She's basically the
Assasin from Assasin's Creed.

And she likes Kaz. She doesn't like liking Kaz but she can't help it. I really
love how she deals with Kaz asking her not to leave. "I will have you without
your armour Kaz, or I won't have you at all."

### Nina Zenik

She might be the my favourite character in the book (I am still confused
between Kaz and her). She is the only trained Grisha in the group and though
her training is in Heartrendering, she helps out the entire group with whatever
healing she knows of. She saved Inej when Inej was fatally hurt. And not to say
she saved everyone of them by consuming *jurda parem* and giving up her own
life (I hope she doesn't die in the second book because of the addiction). And
one can't speak of her without speaking of Matthias. The whole history between
her and Matthias was mind blowing. It was she who changed the beast that
Matthias had become into the boy that he internally was. And her journey with
Matthias after the shipwreck is my favourite part in the book - the little
taunts and teases melting Matthias's heart. And I knew that there had to be a
reason why she gave Matthias to the Kerch authorites and I believe that it was
justified. She had seen the Fjerdan *drüskelle* and she had seen how Ravkans
treated the Fjerdans. And there was no way she was going to hand either one of
them to the other. And what she did was the best possible move.  And I think
Matthias too came to accept the fact that there was no other way out though he
hasn't admitted it.

I really hope the *jurda parem* doesn't do anything to her in the next book.

### Matthias Helvar

Whatever he does is again justified if we look at the things from his
perspective. His parents were *drüskelle*. He did not know whether it was a bad
thing or a good thing to be a *drüskelle*. He had only seen his parents getting
killed by Grisha. Later it was Jarl Brum who had fueled the fire within him and
had made him think that Grisha weren't humans, that they had powers that did
not belong to this earth. He and his friends were powerless common humans and
seeing some alienish power destroy their family would ofcourse have gotten to
him.

In the ship that they had captured the Grisha, he had unkowingly helped Nina
survive by giving her a bucket of water. And giving her the water itself had
been an act of kindness for which he would have served a punishment had he
gotten caught.

And everything from the shipwreck to him ending up in Hellgate had been him
softening slowly just because of Nina. He liked her and admitted that he hated
himself for liking her.

And when he was sent to Hellgate and had came to know of what Nina had done
without knowing why she had done it, his will to kill her was absolutely
justified. He thought that she had double-crossed him and all those weeks of
travel had been just an act and that she was always the witch that he had
thought her to be.

But Nina has stayed for him. She could have left for Ravka but she stayed for
him and her presence and justifications for her acts throughout the heist had
brought him back to his real self once again. The presence of Nina had brought
him to his real self once again.

### Jesper Fahey

Jesper is the funny guy of the gang. When the situation is tensed, he is the
one who relieves everyone by cracking a joke. Not to say about his incredible
skills with a gun in his hand. Kaz might not trust Jesper but he always trusts
his sharpshooting skills.

The bad thing about him is his habit of gambling. He is in debt from every
casino in the Barrel. And it is these debts that drive him most towards the
heist. I don't like that he has lied to his hard-working father (who is a
farmer) about him being in some university studying while all he does is shoot
for The Dregs and gamble whatever money he has.

Even though he always taunts Wylan, he defends him in the final encounter with
Van Eck and throughout the book there are moments where he appreciates Wylan's
skills for the crew. Wylan was always mistreated by his father and Jesper is a
great brotherly figure for him.

### Wylan Eck

The final reveal about him was confusing for me. He can draw and sketch well
but cannot read and write. His disability to read and write is the reason that
his father has abandoned him. Then how can he solve mathematical equations? It
would have been good if things were written from his perspective too (since he
was the only character among the six of them to not have anything written from
his perspective).

Also there was some conversation with Jesper in which he asked something like
"Why only girls?" or something like that. I think it is a hint that he might be
gay. And if he is gay then he might not look at Jesper like a brotherly figure.
So a lot of things have been left out in this part of the story and hopefully
the second book will throw more light in this direction.

Anyway, Wylan was an important character. He helped in the heist by being the
insurance for the money (thought it did not work out) and his sketches and the
bombs he made helped them escape a couple of times.

Later on, Nina under the influence of *jurda parem* tailored his appearance to
match the Kuwei and the change might be permanent. I hope it isn't permanent
though since Jesper doesn't like it.

<br>
<br>

And that is a wrap for the first book. I might not be able to write what I felt
about the characters like this again for the second book. So maybe I'll record
my thoughts after each chapter like I attempted to do with The Mortal
Instruments. Cannot wait to read The Crooked Kingdom.


## Crooked Kingdom

Yeah so I decided writing out my thoughts just after each chapter would be a
good idea to manitain the flow and re-read it anytime later to look back at how
I felt about the story.

### Chapter 1

So Retvenko is a Squaller going for a voyage from Ketterdam to gain some money
which he can use to return to Ravka. But a couple of Shu people (most probably
Grisha under the influence of *jurda parem*) abduct him. Most likely, it is
under Van Eck's orders. Maybe he is trying to build anarmy of Grisha soldires
with extraordinary powers with the help of *jurda parem*.

### Chapter 2

We're back in business with the heist. This chapter is written from Wylan's
perspective. They are stalling Cornelis Smeet to stay at the gambling den so
that Kaz and Wylan can serach his house for documents. Smeet is Van Eck's
lawyer and has all the information on his public and private properties - that
is the possible locations of Inej. Nina is using her charms while Jesper is
gambling his guns to stall him (I hope he doesn't lose them). Anyway, it is
mentioned twice that Nina has recovered from her addiction (not clearly
mentioned but I hope so that's the case). Kaz says he has figured out the
location from their search. The encounter between Kaz and Smet's daughter was
amazing.

### Chapter 3

So the collision between Kaz and Smeet was to plant the whistle back in Smeet's
possession. Typical Kaz. All of them are now there in the cemetry planning
their next move. Kuwei wants to go to Ravka but Kaz insists upon the Southern
Colonies. No one can stop Kaz from getting what he wants. Kaz is so bitter to
Kuwei (I mean he is the same way to everyone else too). I know that all he
wants is to protect the boy but still. My respect goes out to Muzzen. No
mourners. No funerals. I actually was wondering at the end of the first book
that what had happened to him. The Shus, the Fjerdan's, the people from Novyi
Zem and what not are all after Kaz and Kuwei. And Jesper's father turns up? I
hope he is not harmed.

### Chapter 4

Woah. A lot of things happened with Inej. She was brought to some place by Van
Eck where she is being held captive. There's a guy called Bajan who looks after
her meals and well-being. He is Suli like her and is nothing but kind to her.
But Inej doesn't admire his kindness since he is working for Van Eck and all of
it could easily be an act - working with Kaz she has learnt the ways of the
Barrel and of Ketterdam. And most of her doesn't believe that Kaz will come to
rescue her but there's one small part that is still hopeful.

### Chapter 5

Jesper goes to the university with Wylan by his side to meet his father.  There
is a huge contrast in the Barrell and the area around the university. We get to
kow some of Jesper's history. He had come to one of the gambling dens with his
new friends from the university for a night of fun but had failed to turn back
towards the gambling dens since then. As soon as he exchanges greetings with
his father, they get ambushed by some gang (multiple gangs?) and have to run
for their lives through a secret passage that Wylan accidentally knows of.

### Chapter 6

So Jesper's *Da* is brought to their hideout where they all back Jesper against
his father by saying that Jesper and they were mislead into this situation by
someone and they are trying their best to make it right. Kaz assures Jesper's
father that he will set everything alright withing three days of time. Since
this chapter is from Nina's perspective, we gain details of what happened to
her after her first dose of *parem*. She hasn't completely recovered. There are
phases when she craves it and wants to kill anyone denying her *parem* and she
hates herself for her behaviour and her inability to control. There's a moment
when she realises that Jesper is the only one with a family and wishes if
Jesper's *Da* could become a fatherly figure for all of them and take them all
away somewhere far from Ketterdam. This is much relatable to real life. Anyway,
they are approaching the location where Inej is kept and Nina uses some unknown
power to kill the guards (while she was trying her best to just silence them).
