# Reading Blog for The Mortal Instruments by Cassandra Clare

I cannot do it. I can't read this book. It is terrible. I read the first 15
chapters. Where The Infernal Devices were a 100, this doesn't even make a 5. I
realised after reading The Infernal Devices that I should have recorded my
thoughts after each chapter as the story unfurls. It would have been nice to
see them transition as they did.  So I decided to that for The Mortal
Instruments but it turned out to be so bad.

I mean it really looks liks a fourteen year old wrote the book. I know it is
difficult to talk about vampires and werewolves and warlocks and shadowhunters
and not sound cringy. The Infernal Devices did that. Infact, the Infernal
Devices was elegant and beautiful. The characteristics of vampires and warlocks
made sense. The behaviour of the Shadowhunters in the institute made sense. And
I guess it is something to do with the time period too. Horse-driven carriages
seemed to be a better vehicle for the shadowhunters. Speaking of vehicles, the
Silent Brothers used a horse-carriage that can float in the air and is
disguised as a limousine and the vampires use motorcycles that can fly. I
wasn't able to digest this much of cringe in a day and had to stop. In addition
to that I read a vampire say "Dude" and "Man". Now compare that to the
behaviour of Da Quincey or Camille in The Infernal Devices.

I decided to stop reading after the first 15 chapters. I did not want to ruin
the impression of the shadow world that I got from The Infernal Devices. The
Mortal Instruments is too childish. I hate to think that I started writing
thoughts after each chapter with this book series. I wish it had been the
Infernal Devices and not this. Anyway whatever "reading blog" I was writing is
given below.




This is not the first series in the Shadowhunter Chronicles that I am reading.
I've already read The Infernal Devices and found it to be one of the best books
I've ever read (I have read only a few). But due to that, I want to get deeper
into the Shadowhunter Chronicles. I want to know what happens to the
descendants of Will, Jem and Tessa. Hopefully, I'll find something to satisfy
that hunger in this 5 book series.

- **Book 1 - City of Bones**

	- **Chapter 1**

		So Clary seems to be the protagonist or (one of the protagonists) and
		she probably has the Sight. The shadowhunters are calling her a
		mundane. Though I doubt it. She could easily be one of the unknown
		Shadowhunters' descendants. Simon is a mundane thought and he
		definitely likes Clary though she doesn't even seem to notice.

	- **Chapter 2**

		Somethings's definitely fishy. Clary's mother is hiding some history
		(most probably her Shadowhunter links). And Luke might know some of it.
		Clary could be a shadowhunter as I had suspected.

	- **Chapter 3**

		Okay, so Simon almost confessed. Poor guy. Clary is too thick to even
		notice. And Jace pops up beside Clary again in the cafe. And Clary's
		mom tells her not to come home because someone has found her out
		finally?! Itmight be that the Mom was escaping for quite an amount of
		time from someone who knew about their history and that someone has
		finally found her. That could be the reason that she wanted to leave
		the city for summer too (she could have sensed that someone is close).
		Also Jace has a "Sensor". The "Sensor" that Henry was inventing in The
		Infernal Devices. That's nice to find that the Shadowhunters began
		respecting Henry for his inventions and started to use them too.

	- **Chapter 4**

		So she killed the demon in her house. She's got to be a shadowhunter.
		Mundanes are too weak to actually do that I think. And mundanes cannot
		even see demons in the first place. The mundanes with the Sight
		probably can though. Hmm. Not sure but I am like eighty percent
		inclined towards Clary being a shadowhunter. And later on Jace draws a
		rune on her. From what I've read in The Infernal Devices, the pain of a
		rune can cause death to any mundane with or without a Sight. But it did
		not do anything to Clary. So I was right, she's got the shadowhunter
		blood.

	- **Chapter 5**

		Isabella wears a red pendant. I have a feeling that it could be the
		pendant that Jem gave to Tessa. Or the pendant that Magnus bought for
		Camille and gave to Will who further gave it to Cecily. But again, she
		says that her name is Isabella Lightwood which means she has descended
		from Gabrielle/Gideon. And Cecily married Gabrielle. So it could be the
		latter. What the hell!? There is too much similarity between Tessa
		walking in on Jem when he was playing the violin and Clary walking in
		on Jace while he is playing the piano. Also Jem had said "Will? Is that
		you?" and Jace says "Alec? Is that you?". That is a nice touch. Church
		is there too. She's alive. The cat that Jem had rescued from the Dark
		Sisters. After Jem left, Magnus took Church with him the America and
		this Church has to be her. Also, Clary loves books, just like our Tessa
		loved books. Alec and Jace are parabatai, I kind of expected that. And
		Jace is rude (similar to Will). The relation of this to trio in The
		Infernal Devices is uncanny. Isabella might just be a Jessamine
		Lovelace. But no one can beat Jem-Will-Tess. I was right about the rune
		that Jace drew. She's not a mundane. And Luke's and asshole. Clary
		doesn't want to cry infront of people. Tessa did not want to cry
		infront of people. Again, there is just too much resemblance and I am
		loving it. The Mortal Cup has gone. It was used to Ascend Sophie. But
		now that this Valentine guy destroyed it, Shadowhunters can only be
		produced by birth I suspect. I think no one can now Ascend.

	- **Chapter 6**

		Not much to say here except that I don't see why Clary slapped Jace.
		And there's a Forsaken in the house. Big Deal. And Dorothy knows about
		the Shadowhunter's world.

	- **Chapter 7**

		Dorothy is an adopted child of warlocks. That's why Clary's mother came
		to live there - so that she should stay in touch with the gossip of her
		world and so that she could escape at a moment's notice using the
		Portal. I was right again - she was a shadowhunter. Also, why is Clary
		dumb? I mean "Dimensional Door" sounds scary enough and anyone in their
		right mind wouldn't want to touch it. But she just went and opened it.
		Such a pea-brain.

	- **Chapter 8**

		Luke had used the door before to go to his farmhouse. And the door is a
		"Portal" which Henry had invented (with a bit of help from Magnus Bane)
		!!! And they found Simon there looking for Clary. I thought he had gone
		out of the picture altogether. So Simon, Jace and Clary break in into
		Luke's and investigate and then Luke turns up with two warlocks. These
		three manage to hide and eavesdrop. And according to the discussion
		Valentine has taken Jocelyn since he thinks that she knows where the
		Mortal Cup is. And Luke's just trying to assure that he has nothing to
		with anything. And also these two warlocks were Jace's father's
		killers.

	- **Chapter 9**

		So, they return to the Institute. Clary convinces Jace to take Simon
		with them. Simon starts to like Isabella now. I thought he liked Clary
		though it might not be actually true. But if it is then I don't like
		Simon since he is switching between girls like he's switching clothes.
		They explain to Hodge what happened. Hodge tells them that the old
		Circle is being formed again. He says that the Circle was meant to kill
		all downworlders under the leadership of Valentine. But what I don't
		understand is that why are the two warlocks working for Valentine then?
		Aren't warlocks downworlders too? Also, Clary's mom is Valentine's
		wife?!


**I did not even bother to type out the Chapter 10 to 15.**
